In this lesson, we're going to create a custom VPC with public and private subnets.
Now let's have a look at what we're going to create.
So we're going to use the same example side a block we've seen in the section.
It's going to be a 10 zero zero zero network with a 16 bit subnet mask.
That's the overall block of addresses.
Then we're going to create these four subnets.
We've got Private One, a private one bay and public one and public one bay.
And the one in the one bay mean that they're associated with a specific availability zone.
Now for the private subnets, we'll have a private roundtable for the public subnets.
We'll have this main round table that's created by default will attach an internet gateway to our VPC,
and the main round table will have a route via the internet gateway out to the internet.
For those public subnets, we also must specify that we want our instances to pick up a public IP address
automatically.
So that's the configuration.
Let's head over to the console and build this out in the VPC dashboard.
I'm going to go to your VP PCs and we just have a single default VPC.
So let's create a new one in your course.
Download in the code directory Amazon VPC you'll have this file, a custom bash VPC.
We can simply copy values.
So I've got the name that's going to go under name tag.
Let's copy the side a block and put that under IPv4 side a block.
We're not going to do IPv6 at this stage, and this course will leave the tendency as default.
If you change the dedicated, it's going to put your instances on hardware that's dedicated to you and
that's going to cost you more money.
So definitely leave that as default, and that's all we need to do to create the VPC.
So the BPC is being created.
One thing I'd like to do is go to actions, edit DNS hostnames and enable.
That means we'll get DNS hostnames for our EC2 instances.
The next task is to create a subnets.
We've got public subnets and private subnets.
So I'm just going to copy these values to my clipboard.
We'll come back, go down to subnets, create subnet.
We need to specify our VPC so my VPC, and then we can put in the name and a subnet name.
Choose the availability zone as one ust one and then the IP for side block will come back.
We'll copy this side a block and we'll paste that in.
Now we could create the subnet there, or we can add a new one, and we're just going to do the same
for the next free subnets.
So just go through this fall and copy these settings for your additional free subnet.
When he finished, your page should look like this.
You've got public one in US East, one eye with a 10 zero one sided block, and then you've got subnet
two public 1b and that should be in Usf1 Bay.
So let's modify that and 10 zero 02 Private one, I should also be in used one eight 10 zero three and
then Private one be in East one 10 04.
So that all looks good.
Let's create all four subnets, and that's the four subnets created now for our public subnets.
We want to go to actions here, modify also assign IP settings and enable the auto assignment of public
IPv4 addresses.
So I've done that for public 1B.
Let's do it for public 1a, and those are updated now.
So the next thing I want to do is I need to create a round table for my private subnets so they're not
attached to the main round table, which is where the public submits will be.
So let's go to round tables, create round table.
We're going to specify a name.
I have that my clipboard from the file private party for VPC.
I'm going to select my VPC and then we'll create the round table.
Once that's created, go to subnet associations, edit subnet associations and you want to select Private
One, 1B and Private One I and safe.
So now we've done that.
If we go into subnet associations, we should see an explicit association for Private One and B.
If we come back up to roundtables, we'll see the other round table here.
So this is the main round table or the public round table, if you like.
And under subnet associations, there are no explicit subnet associations, but 1A and 1B public are
associated implicitly.
The next thing I need to do is go and create an internet gateway.
So under internet gateways here, let's create an internet gateway.
We'll give it a name, and let's just paste this value in from the file and create Internet Gateway.
Once it's being created, it needs to be attached and the actions you can attach to the.
See, select the VPC.
And then attached the Internet gateway.
Now, the last thing we need to do now, we have an internet gateway, we do need a route from our main
roundtable.
So let's go to the main round table here.
Go to routs, edit routs at around and we'll put in the zero zero zero zero zero.
Choose our internet gateway and there it is in the list.
So now everything within the cinder block will be routed locally by the VPC router and everything that's
not within that BBC side.
A block will go out to the internet via the internet gateway.
So let's just save those changes.
So that's it.
We've created our custom BPC with public subnets, private subnets to round tables and an internet gateway.
Now that's all I need to do for this particular lesson.
In the next lesson I'd like to do is launch some instances and just test our configuration and make
sure we have the communication we expect.